----
Simple Bootstrap-Based CSS Work Needed
----

I need two web pages styled based on [Twitter Bootstrap] (http://getbootstrap.com).  I have a working example based on Bootstrap 2.3, but I would like the new version to be simplified and based on Bootstrap 3.0.

## Scope
- Based on Twitter Bootstrap 3.0
- All edits made in separate `main.css` file (ie, I do not what a replacement for Bootstrap; I want something that works on top of it.)
- No javascript.
- Webkit-compatible (ie, does not need to work on old version of IE)

## Required Skills
- CSS/HTML
- Twitter Bootstrap
- Jekyll
- Git (on Github)

## Instructions
The source code is on Github in a repo with two branches: `master` and `dev`.  The `master` branch is based on a Bootstrap 2.3 template with a lot of stuff I don't want/need, and the `dev` branch is basically the same content with less markup and no CSS.

I need two layouts created: one for the home page, and one for a blog post page.  Both pages are based on the [Jekyll] (http://jekyllrb.com) framework.  In the current `dev` branch there are two layouts: default.html, which has the core
 HTML skeleton, and post.html, which calls default.html and wraps the blog post content.  The homepage itself is in the root as index.html, which also calls default.html.

The basic task here is to make the `dev` branch homepage look like the `master` branch homepage, but based on Twitter 3.0 with no javascript.  The secondary task is creation of the blog post layout to work within the overall site.  The blog post styling should be ultra-simple: just whitespace to frame the content and maintain the responsiveness throughout various viewport sizes.

As a final instruction, please include the code word 'minutia' as part of your submission.  I want to avoid bots and others who don't pay attention to detail; inclusion of this word will indicate to me you actually read through the full instructions.

## Source
You can find the source code here at [this repo] (http://github.com/dbinetti/dbinetti.github.com).  To see a working version of the Bootstrap 2.3 version of the site you can go to http://dbinetti.com. To get started simply fork the repo and start working on the `dev` branch.  Send me a pull request with your edits when done.

## Quotes
I am looking for a flat-rate quote.  Please read the instructions completely, view the resources if necessary and quote me the final out-the-door price with payment sent via PayPal.  Also please let me know when you can start and finish the job.  This is a very simple gig but I do have other work available if this goes well.

