---
layout: post
title: Startups are not Little Companies
date: 2013-07-31 05:57:48 UTC
updated: 2013-07-31 05:57:48 UTC
comments: false
---

Most would agree that babies are very different from adults: they eat different food, can't communicate beyond binary (silence/screaming), and are completely dependent on others for their survival. Babies are not merely small versions of adults, and no one would attempt to argue differently.

Yet while startups look a lot like babies -- producing nothing but crap for months on end -- many are run like merely small versions of their big-company brethren, with predictably disastrous results. How many startups have you seen grab headlines of which HP would be proud -- but crash under the resulting traffic? Perhaps you know of one that wanted to get big quick -- but only created big losses. Perhaps another that continues to wait for the inevitable hockey stick nine years (and nine funding rounds) after founding. Yet time and again big-company CEOs are brought in to run startups like small versions of their erstwhile employers. It's like getting a Harvard professor to teach your child ABCs -- how much sense does that make?

Here's the rule: startups are not little companies. Don't treat them that way. Startups need nurturing, they need training, they need constant attention. It will be incredibly difficult to discern their patterns, and once you do, things will change again. Get used to it. They are growing. They are learning. They are adapting to the world around them. They will go through growth spurts. You'll buy clothes that might fit for a month, and then need to ditch them. You'll be convinced that holding them upright keeps them happy -- only to find that today they want to be laid flat on the ground. I could go on, but the point is that all too often the desire for our babies to grow up can get mixed with the realities of the process.

When you reach the mainstream market, it's time to think about giving them the keys to the car. Before that, you're just begging for an accident..."
